slide-1 
Here are the Key Points we will be touching in this Presentation:
Why is Natural GRB slightly biased towards Males than Females
How does the Nature balances out this biased GRB towards Males than Females.
we will be Analyzing the Skewed GRB Across Different States in India and Underlying Causes
and towards the end we will see , Govt Initiatives Addressing Gender Imbalance and Efforts to Promote Gender Equality.

slide-2
Gender Ratio at Birth (GRB) I to the number of male live births for every 1000 female live births.
we can also express it as Males per 1000 females or 
- Although we can express the gender ratio as females per 100 or even 10,  but then we see that reduces the precesion of the data.
The natural GRB is slightly biased towards males, with an estimated ratio of 1.03 to 1.06 males per female.
- This slight excess of male births is believed to balance out the higher mortality rates that males face throughout life like males are more 
  susceptible to accidents and diseases and genetic disorders.
- Other mechansisms nature has evolced is Differential Aging , which we can also see in the table.
Overall Ratio is 1020 females per males.

slide -3 
This slide shows Skewed GRB of different states of India : 
we can see While India's overall sex ratio is moderate, individual states exhibit significant variations in this metric.
Kerala has the best SRB among all the large states of India.
Uttarakhand has the worst SRB.

slide - 4
1. Son Preference and Patriarchy :
Preferring a boy over a girl and emphasizing boys in a society dominated by male authority,
factors inflencing Son Preference and Patriarchy
Cultural Factors : prioritize male children as heirs and providers.
Religious Practices : Sons are seen as necessary to perform last rites and continue the family name.
Example : Haryana’s gender ratio is highly skewed due to a strong cultural preference for male heirs.

2. Economic Considerations :
most States Affected : Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh
Dowry System In these states is prevalent, result daughters are seen as a financial burden.
other reason is Perceived Economic Advantage of Sons : Sons are viewed as potential breadwinners and also support for aging parents.
Example : In Rajasthan , economic factors related to dowry play a major role in skewing the sex ratio.

slide - 5
oter reasons inlude 3. Access to Prenatal Sex Determination Technology :  and 4.Inadequate Enforcement of Laws: 
Most States Affected are the more developed states like :  Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat
illegal use of early sex Determination and easily available ultrasound clinics are the major factors.  
also the weak implementation of PCPNDT in states like Punjab and Rajasthan allows clinics to offer illegal prenatal sex determination.

slide - 6
5. Education and Awareness Gaps
States Affected : Uttar Pradesh, Bihar.
Low Female Education : In states where female literacy rates are lower, traditional norms remain stronger, reinforcing the preference for sons.
Lack of Awareness : Poor awareness about the consequences of a skewed gender ratio contributes to the persistence of these practices.
Example : Bihar has one of the lower literacy rates, which correlates with its skewed gender ratio (895) .

slide - 7
Here is graph which demonstrates the Prefrence of Male child over female in India.
Graph is btwn last child and not the last child 
i.e if the child is last (2nd graph ) GRB is close to 180 if first child 
=> which means if a couple is having first child as a boy they stop having more children
reverse is depicted in 1st graph that if first child is girl they continue to have more babies.

slide-8
Government has also took some Initiatives and the major among them are :
National Mission for Girls' Power
Pre-conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) (PC&PNDT) Act, 1994 
Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana
Beti Bachao beti pacha.

we can conclude that a Collective and multi-faceted approach involving government,
communities, and families is essential to address the skewed gender ratio effectively and promote a balanced and equitable society.